.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" $Id: cronosplit.1m,v 1.4 1999/12/20 09:03:50 andrew Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Apache Software Foundation
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-1999 Andrew Ford and Ford & Mason Ltd.
.\" The file License specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH cronosplit 1m "March 1998"
.\"
.SH NAME
cronosplit \- split log files into cronolog-compatible files
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cronosplit
--template=TEMPLATE [--print-invalid] [--help] [--version] file ...
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cronosplit
is a simple program that reads lines from a set of input log files,
which must be in
.I "Common Log Format"
and write each lines to an output files, the name of which is
constructed using the
.B template
specified and timestamp from the the line.  The template uses the same
format specifiers as the Unix
.BR date (1)
command (which are the same as the standard C strftime library
function).
.\"
.SH Options
.C cronosplit
accepts the following options and arguments:
.IP "--template=\fITEMPLATE\fP"
specifies the template for the output log files (using the format
specifiers described below).
.IP "--verbose"
print additional status messages to the standard error stream.
.IP "--debug"
print debug messages to the standard error stream.
.IP "--help"
print a help message and then exit.
.IP "--version"
print version information and exit.
.\"
.SH Template format
Each character in the template represents a character in the expanded
filename, except for date and time format specifiers, which are
replaced by their expansion.  Format specifiers consist of a `%'
followed by one of the following characters:
.IP %
a literal % character
.IP n
a new-line character
.IP t
a horizontal tab character
.PP
Time fields:
.IP H
hour (00..23)
.IP I
hour (01..12)
.IP p
the locale's AM or PM indicator
.IP M
minute (00..59)
.IP S
second (00..61, which allows for leap seconds)
.IP X
the locale's time representation (e.g.: "15:12:47")
.IP Z
time zone (e.g. GMT), or nothing if the time zone cannot be determined
.PP
Date fields:
.IP a
the locale's abbreviated weekday name (e.g.: Sun..Sat)
.IP A
the locale's full weekday name (e.g.: Sunday .. Saturday)
.IP b
the locale's abbreviated month name (e.g.: Jan .. Dec)
.IP B
the locale's full month name, (e.g.: January .. December)
.IP c
the locale's date and time (e.g.: "Sun Dec 15 14:12:47 GMT 1996")
.IP d
day of month (01 .. 31)
.IP j
day of year (001 .. 366)
.IP m
month (01 .. 12)
.IP U
week of the year with Sunday as first day of week (00..53, where week
1 is the week containing the first Sunday of the year)
.IP W
week of the year with Monday as first day of week (00..53, where week
1 is the week containing the first Monday of the year)
.IP w
day of week (0 .. 6, where 0 corresponds to Sunday)
.IP x
locale's date representation (e.g. today in Britain: "12/04/96")
.IP y
year without the century (00 .. 99)
.IP Y
year with the century (1970 .. 2038)
.P
Other specifiers may be available depending on the C library's
implementation of the
.B strftime
function.
.P
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR apache (1m)
.BR cronolog (1m)
.BR date (1)
.BR strftime (3)
.BR environ (5)
.PP
More information and the latest version of 
.B cronolog 
and
.B cronosplit
can be obtained from
.LP
        http://www.ford-mason.co.uk/resources/cronolog/
.LP
If you have any suggestions, bug reports, fixes, or enhancements,
please mail them to the author.
.SS More about Apache
Documentation for the Apache http server is available from
.LP
        http://www.apache.org
.SH AUTHOR
Andrew Ford <A.Ford@ford-mason.co.uk>
.LP
.B cronosplit
is based on a script called
.B splitlog
by Roy Fielding, which is part of the 
.B wwwstat
package.

