.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" $Id: cronolog.1m,v 1.5 1999/12/20 09:03:50 andrew Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Apache Software Foundation
.\" Copyright (c) 1996-1999 Andrew Ford and Ford & Mason Ltd.
.\" The file License specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.TH cronolog 1m "March 1998"

.SH NAME
cronolog \- write log messages to log files named according to a template

.SH SYNOPSIS
cronolog [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fItemplate\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cronolog
is a simple program that reads log messages from its input and writes
them to a set of output files, the names of which are constructed
using
.B template
and the current date and time.  The template uses the same format
specifiers as the Unix
.BR date (1)
command (which are the same as the standard C strftime library
function).  
.PP
Before writing a message
.B cronolog
checks the time to see whether the current log file is still valid and
if not it closes the current file, expands the template using the
current date and time to generate a new file name, opens the new file
(creating missing directories on the path of the new log file as
needed unless the program is compiled with -DDONT_CREATE_SUBDIRS) and
calculates the time at which the new file will become invalid.
.PP
.B cronolog
is intended to be used in conjunction with a Web server, such as
Apache to split the access log into daily or monthly logs.  For
example the Apache configuration directives:
.LP
        TransferLog "|/www/sbin/cronolog /www/logs/%Y/%m/%d/access.log"
        ErrorLog    "|/www/sbin/cronolog /www/logs/%Y/%m/%d/errors.log"
.LP
would instruct Apache to pipe its access and error log messages into
separate copies of cronolog, which would create new log files each day
in a directory hierarchy structured by date, i.e. on 31 December 1996
messages would be written to
.LP
        /www/logs/1996/12/31/access.log
        /www/logs/1996/12/31/errors.log
.P
after midnight the files
.LP
        /www/logs/1997/01/01/access.log
        /www/logs/1997/01/01/errors.log
.P
would be used, with the directories 1997, 1997/01 and 1997/01/01 being
created if they did not already exist.  (Note that prior to version 1.2 Apache
did not allow a program to be specified as the argument of the
ErrorLog directive.)

.SH Options
.C cronolog
accepts the following options and arguments:
.\"
.IP "-H \fINAME\fP"
.IP "--hardlink=\fINAME\fP"
maintain a hard link from
.I NAME
to the current log file.
.\"
.IP "-S \fINAME\fP"
.IP "--symlink=\fINAME\fP"
.IP "-l \fINAME\fP"
.IP "--link=\fINAME\fP"
maintain a symbolic link from 
.I NAME
to the current log file.
.\"
.IP "-P \fINAME\fP"
.IP "--prevlink=\fINAME\fP"
maintain a symbolic link from 
.I NAME
to the previous log file.  Requires that the
.B "--symlink"
option is specified, as cronolog renames the current link to the name
specified for the previous link.
.\"
.IP -h
.IP --help
print a help message and then exit.
.\"
.IP "-p \fIPERIOD\fP"
.IP "--period=\fIPERIOD\fP"
specifies the period explicitly as an optional digit string followed
by one of units: \fBseconds\fP, \fBminutes\fP, \fBhours\fP,
\fBdays\fP, \fBweeks\fP or \fBmonths\fP.  The count cannot be greater
than the number of units in the next larger unit, i.e. you cannot
specify "120 minutes", and for seconds, minutes and hours the count
must be a factor of the next higher unit, i.e you can specify 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6, 10, 15, 20 or 30 minutes but not say 7 minutes.
.\"
.IP "-d \fIPERIOD\fP"
.IP "--delay=\fIPERIOD\fP"
specifies the delay from the start of the period before the log file
is rolled over.  For example specifying (explicitly or implicitly) a
period of 15 minutes and a delay of 5 minutes results in the log files
being rotated at five past, twenty past, twentyfive to and ten to each
hour.   The delay cannot be longer than the period.
.\"
.IP "-o"
.IP "--once-only"
create single output log from template, which is not rotated.
.\"
.IP "-x FILE"
.IP "--debug=\fIFILE\fP"
write debug messages to 
.I FILE
or to the standard error stream if 
.I FILE 
is "-".  (See the README file for more details.)
.\"
.IP "-s TIME"
.IP "--start-time=\fITIME\fP"
pretend that the starting time is
.I TIME
(for debugging purposes).
.I TIME should be something like "DD MONTH YYYY HH:MM:SS" (the day and
month are reversed if the american option is specified).  If the
seconds are omitted then they are taken as zero and if the hours and
minutes are omitted then the time of day is taken as 00:00:00
(i.e. midnight).  The day, month and year can be separated by spaces,
hyphens (-) or solidi (/).
.\"
.IP -a
.IP --american
Interprete the date part of the starting time the American way (month
then day).
.IP -e
.IP --european
Interprete the date part of the starting time the European way (day
then month).  This is the default.
.\"
.IP -v
.IP --version
print version information and exit.
.\"
.\"
.\" .IP "-p \fIprogram\fP"
.\" postprocess each logfile using program once a new logfile is created.
.\" \fIprogram\fP is invoked with the name of the previous logfile as its
.\" argument.
.\"
.\"
.SH Template format
Each character in the template represents a character in the expanded
filename, except for date and time format specifiers, which are
replaced by their expansion.  Format specifiers consist of a `%'
followed by one of the following characters:
.IP %
a literal % character
.IP n
a new-line character
.IP t
a horizontal tab character
.PP
Time fields:
.IP H
hour (00..23)
.IP I
hour (01..12)
.IP p
the locale's AM or PM indicator
.IP M
minute (00..59)
.IP S
second (00..61, which allows for leap seconds)
.IP X
the locale's time representation (e.g.: "15:12:47")
.IP Z
time zone (e.g. GMT), or nothing if the time zone cannot be determined
.PP
Date fields:
.IP a
the locale's abbreviated weekday name (e.g.: Sun..Sat)
.IP A
the locale's full weekday name (e.g.: Sunday .. Saturday)
.IP b
the locale's abbreviated month name (e.g.: Jan .. Dec)
.IP B
the locale's full month name, (e.g.: January .. December)
.IP c
the locale's date and time (e.g.: "Sun Dec 15 14:12:47 GMT 1996")
.IP d
day of month (01 .. 31)
.IP j
day of year (001 .. 366)
.IP m
month (01 .. 12)
.IP U
week of the year with Sunday as first day of week (00..53, where week
1 is the week containing the first Sunday of the year)
.IP W
week of the year with Monday as first day of week (00..53, where week
1 is the week containing the first Monday of the year)
.IP w
day of week (0 .. 6, where 0 corresponds to Sunday)
.IP x
locale's date representation (e.g. today in April in Britain: "13/04/97")
.IP y
year without the century (00 .. 99)
.IP Y
year with the century (1970 .. 2038)
.P
Other specifiers may be available depending on the C library's
implementation of the
.B strftime
function.
.P
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR apache (1m)
.BR date (1)
.BR strftime (3)
.BR environ (5)
.PP
More information and the latest version of 
.B cronolog 
can be obtained from
.LP
        http://www.ford-mason.co.uk/resources/cronolog/
.LP
If you have any suggestions, bug reports, fixes, or enhancements,
please mail them to the author.
.SS More about Apache
Documentation for the Apache http server is available from
.LP
        http://www.apache.org
.\"
.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
The functionality of
.B cronolog
could be built into Apache, thus saving the overhead of having a
process per log stream and that of transferring data from the server
process to the cronolog process.  The main complication is handling
the case where multiple log streams are written to the same file
(template), for example where different virtual servers write to the
same set of log files.
.SH AUTHOR
Andrew Ford <A.Ford@ford-mason.co.uk>
.LP
.B cronolog
is based on a program called
.B rotatelogs
by Ben Laurie, which is packaged with the Apache web server.
.LP
The symbolic link
.\" and postprocessing options were
option was suggested by Juergen Lesny.
