\input texinfo               @c             -*- Texinfo -*-
@finalout
@setfilename cronolog.info
@c
@c This file documents cronolog - program for rotating web server logs
@c
@c Copyright (C) 1997 Ford & Mason Ltd.
@c
@c This text may be freely distributed under the terms of the GNU
@c General Public License.
@c

@ifinfo
@format
START-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
* Cronolog: (cronolog).            A log file rotation program for web servers
END-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
@end format
@end ifinfo

@setchapternewpage odd
@settitle Cronolog
@titlepage
@title Cronolog
@subtitle A log file rotation program for web servers
@sp 1
@subtitle April 1997
@author Andrew Ford
@page

@tex
{\parskip=0pt \hfill Ford \& Mason Ltd}
@end tex

@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1997 Ford @& Mason Ltd

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided also that
the entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.
@end titlepage

@ifinfo
Copyright @copyright{} 1997 Ford & Mason Ltd.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
@end ignore

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided also that
the entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.

@node Top, Overview, (dir), (dir)
@top Cronolog

Cronolog is a log file rotation program for web servers.

This file describes version 1.3 of cronolog.

@menu
* Overview::                    What is Cronolog?
* How Cronolog works::          How Cronolog works
* Support utilities::           Suport utilities
* Index::                       Index
@end menu
@end ifinfo

@iftex
@raggedbottom
@end iftex

@node Overview, How Cronolog works, Top, Top
@chapter What is Cronolog?
@cindex overview

Cronolog is a log file rotation program for web servers.

@node How Cronolog works, Support utilities, Overview, Top
@chapter How Cronolog works

When Cronolog starts up it examines the log file template specified on
the command line and determines the periodicity of the log files,
i.e. how often the log file should be rotated.  It does this by looking
for date format directives within the template and recording which
directive specifies the smallest unit of time.

When a log file is opened, Cronolog calculates the earliest time at
which a new log file should be written.


@node Support utilities, Index, How Cronolog works, Top
@chapter Support utilities

If you have not been rotating your log files or you have used another
mechanism for rotating log files, you may want to split your existing
log files according to the template you are using for Cronolog.  A
simple perl script called @code{split-logs-by-timestamp} is provided to
do just that.


@node Index,  , Support utilities, Top
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@contents

@bye
